Yuki Mano, ysm@umail.ucsb.edu
CS130B, Fall 2017

# cs130b-huffman-code

The code implements the Huffman coding algorithm in C++. 
There are four separate programs, each of which does a specific simple task.
The programs are designed to communicate with each other via files and pipes.

The four programs are:

    1. frequencies - prints a table of the occurrence frequencies of characters in data read from stdin.

    2. huffman - reads a frequency table from stdin, calculates and prints a table of Huffman codes for each character. 

    3. encode - using a table of Huffman codes (as generated by huffman), translates data from stdin to the corresponding binary encoded data and prints it to stdout. 

    4. decode - using a table of Huffman codes (as generated by huffman), translates data from stdin back to the original data and prints it to stdout. 

# Makefile

A GNU Makefile named makefile compiles these C++ files into object files (*.o) and links these object files into executables. 
The command 'make' generates all four executables with the correct filenames. 

# Usage

The four programs are designed to work together via files and pipes.

To generate a table of the occurence frequencies of various characters in an input file, run the following command:
   
   $ cat input | ./frequencies

The outut of the frequencies program can be use as the input to the huffman program to generate an optimal Huffman code for the sample input:
    
    $ cat input | ./frequencies | ./huffman

To save this to a file use output redirection: 
   
   $ cat input | ./frequencies | ./huffman | > code

Now it is possible to use the saved code with the encode and decode programs:
    
    $ cat input | ./encode code > encoded
    $ cat encoded | ./decode code > decoded 

The encoded version should be a good bit smaller than the original version. 
The decoded version should be identical to the original version. 